Title: Wittgenstein's "Kampf mit Sprache."
Date: 2016-07-09 16:00
Category: Bad Philosophy
Tags: wittgenstein, badphilosophy
Slug: kampf-mit-sprache
Author: James Taylor
Summary: Thoughts on the struggle with language.

Im Vermischte Bemerkungen, Wittgenstein schreibt,
"Wir kampfen mit der Sprache.
Wir stehen im kampf mit der Sprache."

This is a profound simile. I think that 
it is profound because there's a deep
connection between the struggle with 
language and the struggle for our soul.

Wittgenstein directs our attention that
meaning should be understood by usage within
the context of a language game. However, this
only hints at the underlying complexity with
which meaning is derived, for there are in fact
a number of games that are being played involving various
(not necessarily disjoint) sets of players, and 
these games may be nested hierarchically. In 
many instances, a player may not be entirerly
certain the game that should provide the context
to the meaning of assertions. So language users
must simultaneously infer meaning as well as the
game through contextual clues. Perhaps one of the
most important contextual clues is the sets of 
relationships that exist among the other players.

However, self-identity is similarly determined
largely by contextual clues that arise in 
a network of relationships. Hence, inferences
about language are intimately connected with
inferences about one's own self, and the struggle
with language and the struggle to paint a picture
of one's self are both rooted in inferences made
from our network of relationships to others. 
